The evolution in the way technology affects our lives creates a battle of ever-increasing rivalry between the pursuit of information, and the forces protecting it. In a new world of electronics and virtual communication, the metaphors themselves that we have adopted in our use of computers, can potentially lead to an individual's private information being accessed by everyone on the planet. Though the specific workings of  our machines are vastly complex, familiar terms are assigned to Cyber concepts; they are representations of the inner mechanics present in the machines we use. With more information constantly being fed to the Internet, large bases of data are generated where hundreds of millions of people's public, private, and even unknown-to-them information is gathered. The gain of this information by certain individuals can potentially lead to destructive effects for the original owner. Protection of this information is growing more important by the year, and methods of doing so are of major focus to both the protector, and the seeker of said information. The art and necessity of Operational Security (OPSEC) was spawned to combat this seeking force - to protect one's information from the prying eyes of the public, the government, and attackers with an agenda. 

The computer:
To fully understand the how-s, the why-s, and the what-s of Digital Communication, OPSEC, and Cyber Security, one must understand the mechanics of the machines and programs they are working with. The most basic of terms requiring clarification is a computer. Computers are literally everywhere. From the desktop this was typed on, to the cash register the desktop was purchased at, machines have been aiding humans by doing fast and intense mathematical calculations. In essence, every computer is a calculator, of differing computational capabilities. These capabilities are not about how much the computer "knows," or how "smart" the computer is, but merely how fast it can perform these calculations, and how many it can be working on at one given time. Virtually the only difference between a disposable calculator, and the super-computers that host the computations of massive services like Google, is how fast they can perform these calculations, and how many calculations can be worked on at the same time. The first computers were mechanical. They were machines that could perform mathematical calculations faster than a human could. The first of these machines was called the Differential Machine, built by Charles Babbage in 1832. This machine could calculate operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication and division using spinning wheels with a set number of cogs. This essentially acted as the very first calculator. The Differential Machine was the first mechanism that allowed computations previously done by a human brain to be done automatically, more quickly, and more accurately. As time passed, more machines were built using similar techniques, each advancing in speed, complexity of possible operations, and even power efficiency. These mechanical computers evolved into great complex networks of mechanical components, and began solving real-world problems, such as breaking the German code, Enigma, and UNIVAC predicting the turnouts in the 1952 elections. ("History of Computers and Computing, Babbage, Differential Engine." N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Dec. 2016.)